One pumping well disturbed the Madison aquifer for about seven days. Five observation wells recorded the response across more than three kilometres.
In the classical radial relation, flux and the drawdown gradient are evaluated at the same radius and time. The model therefore keeps one constitutive clock.
A connected fracture can carry flow quickly while a dead-end branch takes longer to exchange pressure. This is a proposed interpretation of another response time.
The generalized relation assigns one response time to radial flux and another to the drawdown gradient.
Substituting that relation into radial mass conservation changes the aquifer equation itself; it is not a delay added after calculation.
The boundary-value problem is transformed in time. The well and far-field conditions select a modified-Bessel radial solution in the Laplace domain.
For each observation well, the study estimated three hydraulic parameters and two lag times using Levenberg-Marquardt nonlinear least squares.
Table 2 reports lower Case 2 standard error at four wells. CHLN-2 is equal at the reported precision.
The fitted lags do not collapse to one site constant. Figure 5 reports distance trends after excluding BHPL because it lies opposite the pumping well.
Lagging Theory is therefore a testable pumping-test diagnostic. Its fitted lags remain conditioned on the model, test design, distance, and site structure.